4.3 Coordinates: dimension coordinate and auxiliary constructs

Coordinate constructs (Fig. 10) provide information which locate the
cells of the domain and which depend on a subset of the domain axis
constructs. As previously discussed, there are two distinct types of
coordinate construct: a dimension coordinate construct provides
monotonic numeric coordinates for a single domain axis, and an
auxiliary coordinate construct provides any type of coordinate
information for one or more of the domain axes.

In both cases, the coordinate construct consists of a data array of
the coordinate values which spans a subset of the domain axis
constructs, an optional array of cell bounds recording the extents of
each cell, and properties to describe the coordinates (in the same
sense as for the field construct). An array of cell bounds spans the
same domain axes as its coordinate array, with the addition of an
extra dimension whose size is that of the number of vertices of each
cell. This extra dimension does not correspond to a domain axis
constructsince it does not relate to an independent axis of the domain
(for example, the bounds dimension defined at line 6 in Fig. 3 does
not correspond to a domain axis construct). Note that, for
climatological time axes, the bounds are interpreted in a special way
indicated by the cell method constructs.

A coordinate construct may also have optional, ancillary properties
for correctly interpreting <how the cell bounds describe the shape and
extent of each cell.> These ancillary poperties are identified by
standardised names and may be boolean-valued (indicating ...), the
value of the netCDF property, or are the arrays (possibly with units)
containing extra information


The dimension coordinate construct is able to unambiguously describe
cell locations because a domain axis can be associated with at most
one dimension coordinate construct, whose data array values must all
be non-missing and strictly monotonically increasing or
decreasing. They must also all be of the same numeric data type. If
cell bounds are provided, then each cell must have exactly two
vertices. CF-netCDF coordinate variables and numeric scalar coordinate
variables correspond to dimension coordinate constructs.

Auxiliary coordinate constructs have to be used, instead of dimension
coordinate constructs, when a single domain axis requires more then
one set of coordinate values, when coordinate values are not numeric,
strictly monotonic, or contain missing values, or when they vary along
more than one domain axis construct simultaneously. CF-netCDF
auxiliary coordinate variables and non-numeric scalar coordinate
variables correspond to auxiliary coordinate constructs.

If a domain axis construct does not correspond to a continuous
physical quantity, then it is not necessary for it to be associated
with a dimension coordinate construct. For example, this is the case
for an axis that runs over ocean basins or area types, or for a domain
axis that indexes a time series at scattered points. In such cases,
one-dimensional auxiliary coordinate constructs could be used to store
coordinate values.  These axes are discrete axes in CF-netCDF.

Domain topology construct

<preamble>

The domain topology construct consists of:

* Properties (e.g. mesh type; mesh name; an integer recording the
  highest dimensionality of the geometric elements)

* Dimensions [1..*] numbers of nodes, edges, faces, volumes in the
  domain topology)

* Auxiliary coordinate constructs [1..*] ((representative) locations
  of nodes, edges, faces, volumes)

* Connectivity arrays [1..*] (indices connecting topology elements)


