#Incorporating the CF data model into the conventions
#----------------------------------------------------
#
#A data model is an abstract interpretation of the data, that
#identifies the elements of the dataset and their scientific intent,
#and describes how they are related to one another and to the real or
#model world from which the data were derived. A data model is
#necessary because it imposes the rules, constraints, and relationships
#connecting metadata to the data that are needed to imagine how the
#quantities included in the dataset should be combined and processed
#scientifically.
#
#I would like to propose that the CF data model published in published
#in Geoscientific Model Development in December 2017
#(https://www.geosci-model-dev.net/10/4619/2017/gmd-10-4619-2017.pdf)
#be formally incorporated into the CF conventions. The published data
#model was for CF-1.6, but the changes from data model was
#
#The data model is an abstract interpretation of the data, that
#identifies the elements of the dataset and their scientific intent,
#and describes how they are related to one another and to the real or
#model world from which the data were derived. A data model is
#necessary because it imposes the rules, constraints, and relationships
#connecting metadata to the data that are needed to imagine how the
#quantities included in the dataset should be combined and processed
#scientifically.




Incorporating the CF data model into the conventions
----------------------------------------------------

In this ticket we propose that a CF data model for data and metadata
corresponding to the existing standard (version 1.7) is incorporated
into the CF conventions. As a netCDF convention, up to now the CF
standard has not included a data model. However, the design of CF
implies a data model to some extent and defining an explicit data
model will contribute to the CF goal to help in "building applications
with powerful extraction, regridding, and display capabilities".

A data model is an abstract interpretation of the data that identifies
the elements of the dataset and their scientific intent, and describes
how they are related to one another and to the real or model world
from which the data were derived. A data model is necessary because it
imposes the rules, constraints, and relationships connecting metadata
to the data that are needed to imagine how the quantities included in
the dataset should be combined and processed scientifically.

Following discussions at the 2017 netCDF-CF meeting, we propose that
the CF data model that was recently published in the Geoscientific
Model Development journal (GMD)
(https://www.geosci-model-dev.net/10/4619/2017/gmd-10-4619-2017.pdf)
be formally incorporated into the CF conventions as an independent
element of CF, separate from the CF standards and conformance
documents, to be updated for successive CF versions in line with those
documents.

The data model published in GMD was for CF-1.6, but it is consistent
with all of the changes to the conventions arising from the 28 tickets
that contributed to CF-1.7. Therefore we may consider this also to be
the data model for CF version 1.7.

We propose a new document for the CF data model and have produced a
draft of this (attached) that describes the data model, with
associated UML (Unified Modelling Language) diagrams to illustrate
it. The description follows closely from the text and diagrams of the
GMD paper, which in turn grew out of the discussions in tickets #68,
#88, #95 and #107. The new document also describes how the data model
is implemented in netCDF, but this is not part of the data model
itself, as the same data model could be implemented in other
non-netCDF-like file formats.

The CF data model overlaps with other work on data models, especially
the Unidata CDM. How the CF data model relates to other data models is
not required as part of the conventions, and so does not appear as
part of this proposal, but is dicussed in the GMD paper.

Governance
----------

The CF data model will have to adapt to future enhancements to the
conventions, and therefore must be considered when changes to the
conventions are proposed. To ensure that this occurs, we suggest the
following guidelines to be added to the end of the existing "Rules for
CF Conventions Changes" document:

* The CF data model will guide the development of CF by providing a
framework for ensuring that proposed changes fit into CF in a logical
way, rather than just a pragmatic one.

* All new proposals will be assessed to see if the new features defined
in the proposal map onto the CF data model.

* The assessment will be carried out by a member of the conventions
committee or another suitably qualified person. If no-one volunteers,
the chairman of the committee will ask someone to do it.

* If the proposal maps onto the existing CF data model then no further
action is required.

* Otherwise an attempt must be made to modify the proposal so that its new
features do map onto the CF data model, and in such a way that the
proposal's intent is not compromised.

* If the proposal cannot be acceptably modified to conform to the
existing data model, then the data model will need to be modified to
accommodate the new features. This modification will be either
backwards compatible or backwards incompatible. The former
(preferable) case occurs if the data model may be extended or
generalised in some way that allows the new features but does not
affect its existing constructs and relationships.

* Any changes to the data model must be described verbatim as part of
the proposal discussion, including any modified or new data model
diagrams.


David Hassell
Jonathan Gregory
